Text effectors are a way to easily add complex custom animations to 2D and 3D text. They are commonly used for animating individual characters without the need to manually add keyframes to each one separately.

How do they work?
Text effectors are stackable logic for describing the properties of individual characters within a text object. Gen4 provides easy-to-use templates that can create a large variety of animations.

How to add a text effector
2D
Drag a text clip to the timeline from the types panel
Double click the text clip to edit
Select the text in the top left
Find the Text Effectors dropdown in the properties panel and and click the plus icon.
3D
Drag a scene clip to the timeline from the types panel
Double click the scene clip to edit
Click the plus button in the objects list and add a Text object.
Select the text
Find the Text Effectors dropdown in the properties panel and and click the plus icon.
Ordering effectors
When adding text effectors, it's important to note that the order matters. The output of one effector is the input into the next one from top to bottom, just like video effects.

Default effector templates
Standard Layout
Included by default in every text object. Initializes the characters to their default positions based on a typical text layout.

Property	Description
Size	Size of the text
Align	Horizontal alignment or anchor point (left, right, center)
Vertical Align	Vertical alignment or anchor point (top, baseline, center, bottom)
Letter Spacing	The spacing between each letter represented as an offset from the original font
Line spacing	The spacing between each line represented as an offset from the original font
Tip
If you disable or delete this effector (and any other layout effectors), you will notice that all of the text characters are stacked on top of each other. This is the default position when there is no layout effector applied. To restore the default text layout, simply add a Standard Layout effector.

Time Offset
Applies an animation but offsets the timing of each letter, word, or line.

Time Offset text effector example

Property	Description
Mode	Determines how to group the timing (i.e. by character, non-whitespace character, word, or line)
Time Offset	The number of seconds each subsequent item is delayed by
Position	Position animation
Rotation	Rotation animation
Scale	Scale animation
Rotation Order	The order the axises in the rotation property
Reverse	Toggles between first item to last item or last item to first item
Segment
Selectively affects different parts (or segments) of the text.

Segment text effector example

Property	Description
Target Type	Determines which type of segment to target (i.e. by character, non-whitespace character, word, or line)
Target Mode	Whether the target property refers to a percent or an index
Target	The index or percent of what this effector will change
Target Size	The size or buffer around the target
Position	Position animation
Rotation	Rotation animation
Scale	Scale animation
Apply Mode	Option to apply relative change or to interpolate between an absolute position
Shake
Adds a shaking animation to each character.

Shake text effector example

Property	Description
Amount	The amplitude (intensity) of the shake
Frequency	The frequency (speed) of the shake
Frequency Variance	The amount of variance between shake targets
Smooth Amount	Amount of smooth period wave to use
Noise Amount	Amount of random noise to use
Translate Amount	Factor applied to shake translation (position)
Rotate Amount	Factor applied to shake rotation
Scatter
Randomly scatters all characters. Can also be used to randomly rotate characters.

Scatter text effector example

Property	Description
Amount	Overall amount to randomly scatter
Translate Amount	Maximum amount to translate in any direction
Rotate Amount	Maximum amount to rotate on any axis
Position Weights	Weight factors applied to each dimension when positioning
Rotation Weights	Weight factors applied to each dimension when rotating
Seed	A seed for the pseudorandom sequence; different seeds produce different randomizations
Arc Layout
Positions letters along an arc.

Arc Layout text effector example

Property	Description
Arc Size	The size (radius) of the arc
Center Angle	The center point to align letters around the arc
Radius	The radius of the arc
Face Outward	Causes letters to face outward from the center of the arc
Note
Typically, only one layout effector should be used on a single text at once. This is due to the way text layout calculation currently works. You may experience strange results if using multiple layout effectors on the same text object (e.g. Standard Layout + Arc Layout).